After we introduced IOTA in our last video, we use this video to evaluate what IOTA stands for and have a closer look at the IOTA development road map. 
Thanks to advancement of secure cryptographic protocols, Crypto Currencies evolved in recent years to a viable and more and more accepted way of payment. Since every payment is a transfer of information -  crypto currencies are in its core protected information transfer protocols.
The IOTA team questioned from an early beginning whether the IOTA’s crypto protocols should only be used to validate transactions and studied the specific needs in a world of automated IOT devices to create an ecosystem of sustainable, real-world value. 
Since IOTA’s number one priority is the real-world adaption, the ecosystem fund supports a various programmer teams to enhance the IOTA software environment. Due to the tangle architecture, client nodes provide IOTA’s main infrastructure. The IOTA developer team currently works on “standard clients”, “Light Clients” as well as “Swarm Clients”. While standard clients run full tangle nodes, they require higher processing investments, and are therefore not recommend for low-energy IOT devices. Light clients on the contrary don’t run a node by themselves which makes them the most resource friendly group of clients, and Swarm clients allow multiple devices to bundle the resources to provide a shared node.   
Another exciting development is the Identity of things implementation for IOT devices. Identity of things allows to give each IOT device to share meta information such as a unique Identifier and the current state of the device. By allowing an IOT device to change its own metadata it can react to specific environmental challenges such as malfunctions or insufficient capacities to handle certain problems.
With the Masked Authenticated Messaging function, also known as MAM, the device then triggers a reaction by sending an encrypted message to other IOT devices in the network. Depending on the specific environment, other IOT helper devices can then react by changing their own behaviour. This way a support IOT device could repair, support, or distance itself from the affected device.
Such communication functionality also opens the opportunity to integrate a master server that collects all messages transmitted including the outcome of each situation. That way, the sever could perform machine learning optimization algorithms to improve situation specific reaction patterns. Since the tangle only stores transactions since its last snapshot, a mechanism that constantly saves all addresses and assets, the IOTA team is in the process to integrate a “permanode” functionality that allows to store all tangle information permanently. 
And to finally complete the demands of IOT devices in the IOTA environment, a transmission gateway called “Oracle” is under development to feed all network devices with frequently updated data that either only exist outside the network or are useful to be shared across all tangle nodes. 
This video only covered a small subset of possibilities that a successful IOTA implementation offer. If you got interested and want to learn more about IOTA, additional articles are available on the official iota roadmap page linked below. 
